hydrogen-quickstart/README.md, before:

# Shopify Hydrogen/Chord Analytics Eventing Template

Hydrogen is Shopify’s stack for headless commerce.

[Check out Hydrogen's docs](https://shopify.dev/custom-storefronts/hydrogen)
[Check out Chord's Tracking Plan docs](https://docs.chord.co/tracking-plan)

### Getting started

**Requirements:**

- Node.js version 18.0.0 or higher

### Local development

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Chord Analytics Integration

**Relevant Documentation:**

- Hydrogen [Analytics events tracking] documentation (<https://shopify.dev/docs/storefronts/headless/hydrogen/analytics/tracking?framework=hydrogen&extension=javascript>
  )

- Hydroden's [`useAnalytics`](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2024-04/hooks/useanalytics) hook documentation

### Installation

The Chord Analytics integration is installed as a dependency:

```
npm install @chordcommerce/analytics
```

### Configuration

Configure your `.env` with the following values:

```
PUBLIC_CHORD_OMS_ID: chord to provide
PUBLIC_CHORD_STORE_ID: chord to provide
PUBLIC_CHORD_TENANT_ID: chord to provide
PUBLIC_CHORD_CDP_DOMAIN: https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co | https://development.cdp.ingest.chord.co | https://staging.cdp.ingest.chord.co
PUBLIC_CHORD_CDP_WRITE_KEY: chord to provide
```

### Implementation

1. **Client Creation** - `app/lib/chord.js`

The Chord Analytics client is created using the createChordClient function, which initializes the ChordAnalytics instance with custom formatters.

```
export const createChordClient = (props) => {
  if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
    const options = createChordOptions({...props});
    return new ChordAnalytics(options);
  }
};
```

NOTE: The typeof window !== 'undefined' check is needed because this code runs in both server-side and client-side environments in a Hydrogen/React Router application.

2. **Analytics Component** - `app/components/ChordAnalytics.jsx`

The Chord Analytics functionality is delegated to a single Analytics component for analytics events subscription using Hydroden's `useAnalytics` hook:

3. **Root Integration** - `app/root.jsx`

The Chord Analytics component is integrated at the root level of the application:

```
<Analytics.Provider cart={data.cart}>
  {data.chord && (
    <ChordAnalytics
      currency="USD"
      domain={data.chord.domain}
      locale="en-US"
      omsId={data.chord.omsId}
      storeId={data.chord.storeId}
      tenantId={data.chord.tenantId}
      cdpDomain={data.chord.cdpDomain}
      cdpWriteKey={data.chord.cdpWriteKey}
    />
  )}
  <PageLayout {...data}>{children}</PageLayout>
</Analytics.Provider>
```

4. Content Security Policy Configuration `app/entry.server.tsx`

Add the Chord CDP Domain (<https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co>) and the domain's of any device mode destiantions to the relevant CSP directives

```
connectSrc: [
  // ... other domains
  'https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co',
  // ... other domains
]
```

This allows the Hydrogen application to make network requests to the Chord analytics ingestion endpoint.

```
scriptSrc: [
  // ... other domains
  'https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co',
  // ... other domains
],
```

This allows the application to load and execute JavaScript from the Chord domain.

The CSP configuration ensures that:

1. The application can send analytics data to Chord's servers
2. Chord's JavaScript tracking code can be loaded and executed
3. These operations are explicitly allowed by the browser's security policy

## Event Tracking Examples

**Page Views**

```
 subscribe('page_viewed', () => {
    chord.page();
  });
```

The subscribe function comes from Hydrogen's useAnalytics() hook. Hydrogen automatically emits a 'page_viewed' event when the use navigates pages. When that event fires, it calls chord.page() in it's callback function to track the page view in Chord.

**Track Events**

```
subscribe('cart_viewed', (data) => {
  const {cart} = data;
  if (!cart) return;
  chord?.trackCartViewed({cart});
});
```

When a user navigates to the cart page in the Hydrogen storefront, Hydrogen automatically emits a 'cart_viewed' event. `chord.trackCartViewed({cart})` calls Chord Analytics' trackCartViewed method with the cart data.

**Custom Track and Indetify Events**

See the following custom event subscription:

```
subscribe('custom_email_subscribed', (data) => {
  const {customData} = data;
  if (!customData) return;

  chord.identify({
    email: customData.email,
  });

  chord.trackEmailCaptured({
    email: customData.email,,
    placementComponent: customData.location,
  });
});
```

The above code would correspond with a publication of the custom event like so:

```
publish('custom_email_subscribed', {
  customData: {
    email,
    location: 'notify me',
  },
});
```

Commit message:

add details on root data, loading and passing as props to the ChordAnalytics component

hydrogen-quickstart/README.md, after:

# Shopify Hydrogen/Chord Analytics Eventing Template

Hydrogen is Shopify’s stack for headless commerce.

[Check out Hydrogen's docs](https://shopify.dev/custom-storefronts/hydrogen)
[Check out Chord's Tracking Plan docs](https://docs.chord.co/tracking-plan)

### Getting started

**Requirements:**

- Node.js version 18.0.0 or higher

### Local development

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Chord Analytics Integration

**Relevant Documentation:**

- Hydrogen [Analytics events tracking] documentation (<https://shopify.dev/docs/storefronts/headless/hydrogen/analytics/tracking?framework=hydrogen&extension=javascript>
  )

- Hydroden's [`useAnalytics`](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/hydrogen/2024-04/hooks/useanalytics) hook documentation

### Installation

The Chord Analytics integration is installed as a dependency:

```
npm install @chordcommerce/analytics
```

### Configuration

Configure your `.env` with the following values:

```
PUBLIC_CHORD_OMS_ID: chord to provide
PUBLIC_CHORD_STORE_ID: chord to provide
PUBLIC_CHORD_TENANT_ID: chord to provide
PUBLIC_CHORD_CDP_DOMAIN: https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co | https://development.cdp.ingest.chord.co | https://staging.cdp.ingest.chord.co
PUBLIC_CHORD_CDP_WRITE_KEY: chord to provide
PUBLIC_CHECKOUT_DOMAIN: [your-store].myshopify.com
```

### Implementation

1. **Client Creation** - `app/lib/chord.js`

The Chord Analytics client is created using the createChordClient function, which initializes the ChordAnalytics instance with custom formatters.

```
export const createChordClient = (props) => {
  if (typeof window !== 'undefined') {
    const options = createChordOptions({...props});
    return new ChordAnalytics(options);
  }
};
```

NOTE: The typeof window !== 'undefined' check is needed because this code runs in both server-side and client-side environments in a Hydrogen/React Router application.

2. **Analytics Component** - `app/components/ChordAnalytics.jsx`

The Chord Analytics functionality is delegated to a single Analytics component for analytics events subscription using Hydroden's `useAnalytics` hook:

3. **Root Integration** - `app/root.jsx`

Add a `chord` key to the object returned from the exported loader function in the `app/root.tsx` file:

```
  chord: {
    domain: env.PUBLIC_STORE_DOMAIN,
    omsId: env.PUBLIC_CHORD_OMS_ID,
    storeId: env.PUBLIC_CHORD_STORE_ID,
    tenantId: env.PUBLIC_CHORD_TENANT_ID,
    cdpDomain: env.PUBLIC_CHORD_CDP_DOMAIN,
    cdpWriteKey: env.PUBLIC_CHORD_CDP_WRITE_KEY,
  }
```

That data is later accessed in the Layout component with:

```
const data = useRouteLoaderData('root');
```

And subsequently used within the Chord Analytics component at the root level of the application like so:

```
<Analytics.Provider cart={data.cart}>
  {data.chord && (
    <ChordAnalytics
      currency="USD"
      domain={data.chord.domain}
      locale="en-US"
      omsId={data.chord.omsId}
      storeId={data.chord.storeId}
      tenantId={data.chord.tenantId}
      cdpDomain={data.chord.cdpDomain}
      cdpWriteKey={data.chord.cdpWriteKey}
    />
  )}
  <PageLayout {...data}>{children}</PageLayout>
</Analytics.Provider>
```

4. Content Security Policy Configuration `app/entry.server.tsx`

Add the Chord CDP Domain (<https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co>) and the domain's of any device mode destiantions to the relevant CSP directives

```
connectSrc: [
  // ... other domains
  'https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co',
  // ... other domains
]
```

This allows the Hydrogen application to make network requests to the Chord analytics ingestion endpoint.

```
scriptSrc: [
  // ... other domains
  'https://production.cdp.ingest.chord.co',
  // ... other domains
],
```

This allows the application to load and execute JavaScript from the Chord domain.

The CSP configuration ensures that:

1. The application can send analytics data to Chord's servers
2. Chord's JavaScript tracking code can be loaded and executed
3. These operations are explicitly allowed by the browser's security policy

## Event Tracking Examples

**Page Views**

```
 subscribe('page_viewed', () => {
    chord.page();
  });
```

The subscribe function comes from Hydrogen's useAnalytics() hook. Hydrogen automatically emits a 'page_viewed' event when the use navigates pages. When that event fires, it calls chord.page() in it's callback function to track the page view in Chord.

**Track Events**

```
subscribe('cart_viewed', (data) => {
  const {cart} = data;
  if (!cart) return;
  chord?.trackCartViewed({cart});
});
```

When a user navigates to the cart page in the Hydrogen storefront, Hydrogen automatically emits a 'cart_viewed' event. `chord.trackCartViewed({cart})` calls Chord Analytics' trackCartViewed method with the cart data.

**Custom Track and Indetify Events**

See the following custom event subscription:

```
subscribe('custom_email_subscribed', (data) => {
  const {customData} = data;
  if (!customData) return;

  chord.identify({
    email: customData.email,
  });

  chord.trackEmailCaptured({
    email: customData.email,,
    placementComponent: customData.location,
  });
});
```

The above code would correspond with a publication of the custom event like so:

```
publish('custom_email_subscribed', {
  customData: {
    email,
    location: 'notify me',
  },
});
```
